Andy Bui, Mila Coe, Laura Mikkonen, Anna Nuttal & Miia PippolaAnalysis of a Crime Scene found at the Myyrmäki CampusMetropolia University of Applied SciencesBachelor of Laboratory SciencesLaboratory SciencesCrime Scene Report6 December 2021
AbstractAuthor:	Andy Bui, Mila Coe, Laura Mikkonen, Anna Nuttal & Miia PippolaTitle:	Analysis of a Crime Scene found at the Myyrmäki CampusNumber of Pages:	xx pages + x appendicesDate:	6 December 2021Degree:	Bachelor of Laboratory SciencesDegree Programme:	Laboratory SciencesProfessional Major:	Laboratory SciencesSupervisors:	Jarmo Palm, Title (e.g. Project Manager)	Miika Kuivikko, Title (e.g. Principal Lecturer)		Tiina Soininen, Title (e.g. Project Manager)The text section of the abstract is written to fit the space used on the page. The text section uses the “Body Text No Spacing” style.Keywords:	keyword, keyword

ContentsList of Abbreviations1	Introduction	62	Crime Scene	62.1	The Case	62.2	Layout	62.3	Photos	82.4	Crime light	83	Analysis of Chemical and Physical Evidence	83.1	Fingerprints	83.2	Blood stains	93.3	Fibers and hairs	93.4	Fingernails	103.4.1	Black nail	103.4.2	Pink nail	103.5	Brown powder	113.6	White powder	134	Forensic DNA Analysis	154.1	Lipstick stain	154.2	Cigarette filter	154.3	Epithelial cells	154.4	Semen stain	164.5	Chewing gum	164.6	PCR+AGE	164.7	qPCR	165	Summary	175.1	Data analysis	175.2	Conclusion	17References	18Title of the Appendix	1Title of the Appendix	1AppendicesAppendix 1: Appendix nameAppendix 2: Appendix name
List of AbbreviationsDBMS:	Database management system. Software for maintaining, querying and updating data and metadata in a database.ORM:	Object-relational mapping. The set of rules for mapping objects in a programming language to records in a relational database, and vice versa.
1 IntroductionForensic science is the study of crime through an analytical lens. There are multitude ways that evidence can be collected, analysed, and catalogued to be used in a court of law to prove someone’s innocence or guilt.Forensic analyses used in this report include detecting and collecting fingerprints, blood, and hair samples, analysing DNA found in epithelial cells, semen and hair follicles and identifying illegal and restricted compounds found on the crime scene. At the end of the report all collected evidence is reviewed to establish the turn of events that led to the murder of the victim.2 Crime SceneA crime scene was investigated and analysed using forensic methods. First the crime scene was photographed, all evidence numbered and the whole area viewed under crime light.2.1 The CaseThe police were informed of a possible sexual assault and murder of a young woman at Myyrmäki campus. The victim was cut in the neck region and has an open wound on the skull. The crime scene was sealed off, evidence and reference material collected, suspect was apprehended, and the witness at the crime scene was interrogated.2.2 LayoutThe scene of crime was in Metropolia’s Myyrmäki Campus in a small room occupied as storage space. The room was located in the A-wing of the campus on the second floor where educational labs and teaching is performed The subgroup of  investigators visited the crime scene at 2pm on 9th of November 20201. Figure 1 presents an overall view of the scene.Figure 1. Overall view of the crime scene.The measurements of the room were taken using a regular tape measure. View of the crime scene was also documented using a 360° camera. The measurements of the room and 360° camera placements are indicated on the graph of figure 2.Figure 2. Graph drawn of the crime scene. Figure 1 taken from x marked spot. 360° pictures taken from numbered spots. Blue line indicating the door of the room. The proportions of the graph do not correlate with each other.2.3 Crime lightThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.3 Analysis of Chemical and Physical EvidenceThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.3.1 FingerprintsFingerprints were found from the crime scene’s door handle; champagne glass, evidence number 9 and from the suspected murder weapon, knife. Crime scene’s door handle and its surrounding area were investigated using instant black powder and tape lift technique. Figure 3. No fingerprints were found on the door handle.3.2 Blood stainsThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.3.3 Fibers and hairsThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.3.4 FingernailsThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.3.4.1 Black nailBlack nail found next to the victim, no evidence number as the nail was found later due to crime scene problems. Nail was most likely from the victims’ right thumb, as all other nails were still intact. [insert picture] The sample was wiped with moistened swab from under the fingernail the isolate DNA for later analysis. Sample was stored in 2 ml eppendorf tube in room temperature (RT).Protocol chosen for the samples was Isolation of Total DNA from Surface and Buccal Swabs from QIAamp DNA Investigator Handbook [insert reference]. Group B3 analysed all the black nail samples for B groups, so analysis was done for 3 samples as the was 3 groups. 3.4.2 Pink nailPink nail found next to the victim, evidence number 6, was analysed immediately using Haematoxylin-Eosin Staining (HE staining). [insert picture] Goal was to find human epithelial cells under the nail. After swabbing sample to the slide, staining, and observing it with microscope, some epithelial cells were found. See picture X below.Figure 4. Epithelial cells found under the pink nailEpithelial cells are found…3.5 Brown powderBrown powder, evidence number 10, was found on the left side of the victim. The sample was collected into small tube with stopper. Drug analysis was made with two reagents: Marquis Reagent and Pentest, Narcotic Screening test 2 (MD-2). Marquis Reagent result is shown in figure X and MD-2 result is shown in figure X. Figure 5. Marquis Reagent result.The result was interpreted as Meth/Amphetamine. The colour was more orange than black. The dark spot was more like brown.  Figure 6. MD-2 result.The colour after putting the reagent was pink with green centre. The result was interpreted as cocaine at low level. It should have been the same result with both reagents. But with Marquis reagent the result was Meth/Amphetamine and with MD-2 it was cocaine. Rapid tests are not that reliable. 3.6 White powderWhite powder, evidence number 7, was found next to victim’s left leg. The sample was analysed with FTIR and HPLC. FTIR results are shown in figure X.Figure 7. FTIR results.The result was interpreted as Diclofenac Sodium. It is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to relieve pain (painkiller). To buy Diclofenac Sodium prescription is needed. Before HPLC the powder was dissolved in methanol and ultra-pure water. HPLC-peaks are shown in figure X.Figure 8. HPLC-peaks.The highest peak (6,785) in figure X is Diclofenac Sodium. Diclofenac Sodium concentration was calculated by using the following formula	xxx = number from the teacher.(Mass of Diclofenac Sodium (mg))/(Mass of powder (mg))=(6,40 mg ?)/(1,01 mg)=6,3366 mgConcentration=(6,3366 mg)/(10 ml)=0,63366  mg/ml=633,66  mg/l≈634  mg/l(1)Calculated Diclofenac Sodium concentration was 634 mg/l. 4 Forensic DNA AnalysisThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.4.1 Lipstick stainThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.4.2 Cigarette filterCigarette filter was the evidence number 3. It was cut to six (1 cm2) pieces and then transferred into 1,5 Eppendorf tube for DNA isolation. Isolation of Total DNA from Cigarette Butts was made according to QIAamp DNA Investigator Handbook.4.3 Epithelial cellsThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.4.4 Semen stainA semen stain was found on the victim’s underwear which was collected in a paper bag. A 0.5cm2 sample piece was cut from the middle of the stain, put into a 2ml eppendorf tube and stored for later DNA isolation. Total DNA isolation of body fluid stains was undergone on the semen sample following the method defined by the QIAamp DNA investigator handbook. The semen sample was then analysed using STR PCR.4.5 Chewing gumChewing gum was the evidence number 2. It was cut and weighed (30 mg) and then transferred into 1,5 ml Eppendorf tube for DNA isolation. 4.6 PCR+AGEThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.4.7 qPCRThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.Table 1. qPCR tray positions. ABC1Cigarette 1Nail 1Cat positive 12Cigarette 2Nail 2Cat positive 23Cigarette 3Nail 3Cat positive 34Chewing Gum 1Semen 1Negative H2O 15Chewing Gum 2Semen 2Negative H2O 26Chewing Gum 3Semen 3Negative H2O 37Hair 1Human positive 18Hair 2Human positive 29Hair 3Human positive 310Lipstick 1Dog positive 1 11Lipstick 2Dog positive 2 12Lipstick 3Dog positive 3 5 SummaryThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.5.1 Data analysisThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.5.2 ConclusionThere must always be text or a new subheading below each heading. Do not place a figure or table below a heading with no text in between.
ReferencesUse one of the referencing systems below. Remove the one that you do not use.Harvard (author-date) system:The reference list entries need to be in alphabetical order according to the last name of the author mentioned first in the list of authors.Davies, Barbara; Jameson, Peter & Smith, John. 2013. Advanced economics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.Mitchell, John Arnold & Thomson, Magdalena. 2017. A guide to citation. London: London Publishings.Vancouver (numbering) system:1 Mitchell, John Arnold & Thomson, Magdalena. 2017. A guide to citation. London: London Publishings.2 Davies, Barbara; Jameson, Peter & Smith, John. 2013. Advanced economics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Title of the AppendixThe appendices are not inserted into the table of contents automatically. Instead, they must be mentioned separately just below the auto-generated part of the table of contents.Should you insert figures or tables into an appendix, Word numbers them automatically as if they were in the thesis main section. Fix the numbering of figures and tables in the appendixes manually so that the numbering starts from one in each appendix.Below are instructions for adding and removing attachments so that the headers remain correct.Instructions for adding a new attachment:1. Move the cursor to the end of the last existing attachment page.2. Choose the “Page Layout” tab. From the ribbon select “Page Break” / “Next Page” under “Section Breaks”. This completes the printing of the new attachment, but the number in its header is not correct.3. Double tap the header of the new attachment page with the wrong attachment number. If the “Link to previous” option is selected in the ribbon, press that button so that the option is no longer selected.4. Please correct the attachment number.Instructions for removing an unnecessary attachment:1. First select the entire attached page and press “Delete” to delete its contents.2. When you are at the beginning of the attachment page you have emptied (see figure), double tap the header of the blank attachment page and press the “Link to Previous” button on the ribbon. The dialogue box appears (figure 1). Answer “Yes”.Figure 1. Confirmation of deleting a header.3. From the “Home” tab, toggle hidden characters if they are not visible:4. Remove the section break before the unnecessary attachment (figure 2).Figure 2. Removal of a section break..
Title of the AppendixContent of the appendix is placed here12Appendix 12 (2)Appendix 21 (1)